# 2017-03-29 - Modelling Events, Activities

## Summary

* Brief update on standard development work to date and latest revisions to the specification
* Outline next steps:
  * call to action to this group and beyond to begin testing the specification using real data
  * creating a primer to guide implementation
  * minor update to the paging specification
* Update on open issues
  * Schema.org proposal for recurring events still in review
  * Need to explore description of equipment at facilities and for sessions in more detail
  * Need to agree process for standardising activity list
* Review of planned next steps to support adoption and uptake of the standard
* Discussion around approach for capturing detail on how people sign up to events
  * Agreed to schedule a call in a months time on that topic
* Discussion around capturing information about disability support at events
  * Consensus was that we should develop a strawman proposal, e.g. mixture of free-text fields and a limited set of classifications, then share this with a more expert group
  * Tentatively schedule for a call in 6 weeks time
* Review of next steps for standardising activity lists
  * We now have a data format
  * Need to ask people to share the structured lists they have as open data
  * Need to decide on process on getting alignment between lists
  * This will be the focus of our next CG call on 12th April

Additional Suggestions:

* Jade \(EMDP\), add some guidance on what detail is useful to include in event descriptions
* Terry \(GLL\), create a "kitchen sink" example data file that can be easily cut-down/customised by developers

Actions/Requests:

* Nick \(SE\) provide links to Active Places data/documentation on equipment
* Ben \(Imin\) file an issue to start capturing discussion around disability support at events
* Jade \(EMDP\) share some information on disability data capture in their new system
* Nick \(ODI\) / Jade to review engagement & outreach docs
* Leigh schedule community call to discuss how best to represent disability support
* Leigh schedule community call to start capturing requirements around event availability and booking
* Leigh include guidance on event descriptions in Primer
* Leigh to put together roadmap for standardising activity lists, to circulate to the group.

## Video

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/2rRTKly3ILE" %}



